The trade industry is crucial to have a prosperous economy with job growth, firm partnership and a wider variety of product availability. The quality of trade and transport infrastructure has not improved. It has remained at a steady ranking of 2.91 out of five. Manufacturing has remained stationary and has not experienced any growth. This particular industry also has the opportunity to contribute to economic prosperity. India’s industrial growth rate shows these determinants, which has decreased by 0.8% from 2016 to 2019. India’s industries as a whole also produce lots of hazardous waste as well as water waste, which contradicts the idea of sustainability.

An increase in the research and development budget is crucial for scientific innovation. However, the expenditure on research and development has made no recent improvements, remaining at 0.6% to 0.7%. As of 2018, the number of scientific or technical journal articles published has a ranking of 0.10 in comparison to 0.9 in 2017, and the goal is to rank at 1.2. Nuclear technology, nanotechnology and technology-driven Green Revolution are all fields with massive growth potential. Nonetheless, this would require an increase in the research and development sector controlled by the public sector.

Human society has always been focused on constant innovation and development. Previously, the world developed with a clear purpose to innovate at whatever cost to the planet and the people. While many have secured better lives due to industrialization, there has also been destruction with degraded land, poor living situations, and inequitable growth. The world cannot afford to follow this path of innovation, now is the time to forge a new, inclusive, equitable way to develop industry and infrastructure.

Currently, only 54% of the global population have access to the internet. In the least developed countries around the world, only 19% of the population has internet access. Additionally, 16% of the global population does not have access to mobile networks. Least developed countries have significant potential to add to manufacturing and the global GDP. In 2017, the global share of manufacturing value in added GDP significantly increased due to fast growth in manufacturing in Asia. Renewable energy is one of the sectors with the highest level of capacity investment. In 2019, the amount of added renewable energy capacity was at the highest ever at 184 gigawatts. During this time, wind ranked as the highest investment outranking solar for the first time since 2010. It is critical that emergent nations leapfrog stages of development to prevent further environmental degradation. 

Industrial and technological manufacturing took a significant hit during the COVID-19 pandemic causing disruptions to global value chains and supply. This pandemic highlighted the need for resilient infrastructure and industries that can withstand economic and natural shocks. The aviation industry suffered the steepest decline since its creation with passenger numbers decreasing by 51%. Countries and economies that rely on tourism were left without their main source of revenue, highlighting the importance of fostering resiliency. The Economic and Social Survey of Asia and the Pacific found that making infrastructure resilient to climate change and disasters like the COVID pandemic will require an additional investment of $434 billion per year, a number that may be even greater in developing countries that already lack the adequate infrastructure and resources.

Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic , global manufacture rate was already on a steady decline due to tariffs and trade tensions especially. The COVID-19 pandemic made the situation of the global economy much worse with major industries shutting down, leading to wide spread unemployment and economic recession across the globe. Although some countries are already recovering , many countries are still struggling to deal with the impact of the pandemic.
The airline industry, which play an important role in global economic development, faced the biggest decline in its history in the first five months of 2020, having a 51 per cent drop In airline passengers due to countries across the globe going on lockdown. In order for SDG 9 to be achievable, the airline industry has to be working efficiently as It is the most important form of transportation in the global environment today, and plays a very huge role in trade activities between countries.
Many developing countries lack basic infrastructure like good roads, sanitation, electrical power, information and communication technologies, security and clean water. The cost of business in many developing countries are through the roof, and they do not provide an environment that promotes economic and infrastructural growth . For example In 2019, some 87 percent of people In developed countries used the internet, compared with just 19 per cent in the least developed countries.(Secretary General, UN, 2020) .
Achieving SDG 9 will require significant financing and political will. Key challenges include improving infrastructure in developing countries particularly internet access, inadequate transport, and disparity of research and development investment and number of researchers in developing countries when compared to developed countries.