Globally, there has been an increase in investment in research and development, as well as finance for economic infrastructure in developing countries. Impressive progress has been made in mobile connectivity with almost the entire world population (97 per cent) living within reach of a mobile cellular signal.(secretary general ,UN, 2020). This is a step in the right direction, because easy communication and an almost limitless access to information is very important in achieving this goal.
Achieving this goal will be a collective effort and everyone can help in meeting them, and how can we help? We can help by collaborating with NGOS and the public sector to help promote sustainable growth within developing countries. The geographic reach of research and development facilities can also be expanded. By this , we would be bringing research and development capabilities to developing countries.
Business wise, we can Promote innovation by giving all stakeholders the opportunity to offer creative solutions to sustainability challenges, and further scope out the good ideas and offer awards to the best. We can also Invest in new and resilient infrastructure in developing countries, or as an alternative, retrofit existing infrastructure to make it more efficient and sustainable.
We can also Consult and engage a wide range of stakeholders, including minority groups, to ensure that infrastructure development benefits and creates opportunities for all.
We can also think about how industry impacts life and well-being and use social media to push for our policy makers to prioritize sustainable development goals.

Invest in resilient infrastructure at operations in developing countries or revamp existing infrastructure to make it more sustainable.
Ensure all infrastructure is resilient and can withstand natural disasters.
Incorporate clean and renewable energy into your company’s power portfolio.
Ensure you provide fair, equitable pay to promote economic growth.
Incorporate preferential parking for carpools and charging stations for EVs .
Expand research and development where possible and enhance geographic reach.
Give all stakeholders the opportunity to advocate for their needs and offer creative solutions.
Consult stakeholders along all steps of the process to ensure that development and innovation benefits all.
Establish thorough and rigorous standards to ensure company projects are carried out, managed properly, and do not contribute to inequities.
Collaborate with other companies, nonprofit organizations, and the local government to promote sustainable growth and prioritize key actions.

Participants urged governments and the private sector to implement policies and strategies to support small and medium-sized enterprises, create jobs, and boost productivity in Africa. They also emphasized the need to increase investment in hard and soft infrastructure, including transport, and in the development of skills related to information and communications technology and science, technology, and innovation.

The session called for increased efforts to help firms increase exports, attract foreign direct investment, and facilitate technology transfer. Participants also urged countries to build resilient regional value chains to develop productive and competitive economies that can take full advantage of the opportunities to implement the Agreement establishing the African Continental Free Trade Area.

The session recommended that entities of the United Nations and regional development organizations support States in accessing blended financing instruments, including concessional capital, climate and green funds, and risk mitigation tools. This would encourage private investors who are interested in infrastructure development projects.